docs(qa/v1): added section 'Rotating Node Test' to the `v1.0.0` QA report (#2714)
cometbft/cometbft: docs/references/qa/CometBFT-QA-v1.md

| 200-nodes | 2024-03-21 | v1 (without LE / with LE).0.0-alpha.2 (4ced46d3d742bdc6093050bd67d9bbde830b6df2) | Pass   |

## Rotating Nodes Testnet

As done in past releases, we use `c=1,r=400` as load, as the saturation point in the 200-node test
has not changed from `v0.38.x` (see the corresponding [section](#saturation-point) above).
Further, although latency emulation is now available, we decided to run this test case
without latency emulation (LE); this choice may change in future releases.

The baseline considered in this test case is `v0.38.0-alpha.2`, as described
in the [introduction](#qa-results-for-cometbft-v1x) above.

### Latencies

The following two plots show latencies for the whole experiment.
We see the baseline (`v0.38.0-alpha.2`) on th left, and the current version
on the right.

We can appreciate that most latencies are under 4 seconds in both cases,

> and both graphs have a comparable amount of outliers between 4 seconds and 11 seconds.

Author: Yes, this test case lasts around 90 mins

| ![rotating-heights-ephe-bl](img38/rotating/rotating_eph_heights.png) | ![rotating-heights-ephe](imgs/v1/rotating/metrics/rotating_eph_heights.png) |

In both cases, we see the main loop of the `rotating` test case repeat itself a number of times.
Ephemeral nodes are stopped, their persisted state is wiped out, their config is transferred over
from the orchestrating node, they are started, we wait for all of them to catch up via blocksync,
and the whole cycle starts over. All these steps are carried out via `ansible` playbooks.

We see that there are less cycles in `v1.0.0`. The reason is the following.
All `ansible` steps are currently run from the orchestrating node (i.e., the engineer's laptop).
The orchestrating node when running the rotating nodes test case for `v1.0.0`
was connected to a network connection that was slower than when the equivalent test was run for `v0.38.x`.
This caused the steps reconfiguring ephemeral nodes at the end of each cycle to be somewhat slower.
This can be noticed in the graphs when comparing the width (in x-axis terms) of the gaps without metric
from the end of a cycle to the beginning of the next one.

> If we focus on the _width_ of periods when ephemeral nodes are blocksynching, we see their are slightly narrower

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we focus on the _width_ of periods when ephemeral nodes are blocksynching, we see that they are slightly narrower
```

> in `v1.0.0`. This is likely due to the improvements introduced as part of the following issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in `v1.0.0`. This is likely due to the improvements introduced as part of the issues
```

[#2465](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/issues/2465).

The following plots show the transactions processed per minute.

|                            v0.38.0                             |                          v1.0.0 (without LE)                          |
| :------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| ![rotating-total-txs-bl](img38/rotating/rotating_txs_rate.png) | ![rotating-total-txs](imgs/v1/rotating/metrics/rotating_txs_rate.png) |

They seem similar, except for an outlier in the `v1.0.0` plot.

#### Peers

The plots below show the evolution of the number of peers throughout the experiment.

|                         v0.38.0                         |                      v1.0.0 (without LE)                       |
| :-----------------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------: |
| ![rotating-peers-bl](img38/rotating/rotating_peers.png) | ![rotating-peers](imgs/v1/rotating/metrics/rotating_peers.png) |

The plotted values and their evolution show the same dynamics in both plots.

> Nevertheless, all nodes seem to acquire more peers when ephemeral node are catching up in the `v1.0.0` experiment.

Reviewer 2: Is there an explanation or hypothesis for this?

Author: I don't have a clear explanation of hypothesis, as we didn't really touch the p2p layer significantly between `v0.38.x` and `v1.x`. Maybe the improvements @melekes did to blocksync ?

In any case, it represents an improvement on `v1.x` w.r.t `v0.38.x`.

@cason do you have an idea what it could be?
